{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Submit a README.txt file that contains:\
a. Names of members in group and estimate of total time spent on project\
\
Kunal Vaishnavi; estimate of total time spent = 2.75 (in class, week of 5/15) + 2.75 (in class, week of 5/22) + 9 (out of class, 5/16 to 5/21) + 20 (out of class, 5/22 to 5/26) = 34.5 hrs\
\
b. Summary of project and functionality\
\
The project is a data visualization project with live baseball statistics (meaning that they are being updated on a daily basis). When the program is run, the user can see the live standings in the MLB. The topmost icon is in first place in the division. For example, on a particular day, if in the AL East, the topmost icon shows the logo of the Boston Red Sox, that means that the Red Sox are in first place in the AL East. All six divisions with their standings are shown. The user can also click on any team and get its starting 9 (for the NL, starting 8 + bench player because the pitcher hits and there\'92s no DH). Also, the user can compare two players from different or same teams by clicking on the stat line of the player (i.e. the row where the player\'92s position, name, batting average, ERA, etc. is listed).\
\
The live data is being pulled from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://baseball-reference.com"}}{\fldrslt baseball-reference.com}}, and to access the data from the HTML code on that website, I have used an online tool called Jaunt, which allows for easy access to this data.\
\
c. Explicit instructions on how to run your program\
\
To run the program, simply hit the play button in Processing. You will need to wait for about a minute as the program compiles all of the data from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://baseball-reference.com"}}{\fldrslt baseball-reference.com}}. Then, the standings will show up on the left. Left click on any team\'92s logo to get that team\'92s players\'92 information under the \'93Team 1\'94 column. The same goes for the \'93Team 2\'94 column, except you need to right click. \
\
To compare players, first select the teams you want in the appropriate columns. For example, if you want to compare players on the Boston Red Sox to the New York Yankees, left click on the Red Sox logo and right click on the Yankees logo. Next, select a player that you want to compare* by clicking anywhere on the bottom of the specific player\'92s stat line. If nothing shows up, try clicking a little bit above and below where your cursor was previously (by a little bit, I mean a tiny bit). Then, a graph should show up which compares some statistics for both players.\
\
*Note: There is currently no functionality for comparing batter vs pitcher, so do not click one of each type when comparing.\
\
When you\'92re done, simply click the red button in the top left corner, hit the stop button in Processing, or do Command/Ctrl-Q (depends on what computer you\'92re using - Command for Macs and Ctrl for Windows).\
\
d. A brief discussion of who did what.\
\
Since I\'92m the only person working on this, I did everything on my own. Anytime I was stuck, I asked Dr. Z for help.\
\
e. A brief discussion of the major difficulties encountered in developing/debugging.  Include any known bugs that you didn\'92t have time to fix and any features that you would like to have added but did not. \
\
The biggest difficulties were: \
- Obtaining the HTML data using Jaunt (once I got really familiar with Jaunt and how HTML works, it became fairly straightforward; this helped later on as I needed to pull more HTML data to get the live standings to work and that did not take as long)\
- Removing already printed stats (it took me a while to realize that I had a very simple logic error: I had my stats\'92 font color still set to my background, so of course nothing will show up when you try to display it)\
- Formatting (this was very tedious and frustrating because at times, I wouldn\'92t understand why something wouldn\'92t show up; eventually, I decided to create a visual map of my program on paper and actually mark exactly where everything was; this was so helpful and formatting was a breeze afterwards)\
\
Known bugs: This isn\'92t really a bug but because I put the text size and spacing between players\'92 stat lines to be really small, you have to click below a player\'92s stat line in order to access the player\'92s stat line for comparison.\
\
Features I\'92d Like to Add: Because getting up to where I am right now took so much time, I did not focus on the visuals as much. With more time, I would\'92ve liked to make the visuals a bit more appealing. Also, I would\'92ve liked to implement Team objects whereby I could compare teams\'92 stats overall and see which team is better.}